Now that we've helped navigate how to best
determine the conditions for some of your custom alerts,
we'll move back to the Google merchandise Store demo account,
where we've looked through their analytics to come up with a good candidate for an alert.
Because this is an e-commerce site,
we started by looking at revenue,
because that tends to be one of the most important metrics.
Look at what happened to this revenue stream,
going back to what looks like March.
Now, this is a trend that was begging to be noticed and corrected,
and which we will now set up an alert to prevent it from
ever going unnoticed again. Think about it.
None of the possible causes here a good.
Website issues like a broken shopping cart,
poor SEO, old products that aren't exciting.
Now, natural thought is that maybe this is due to a seasonal trend,
it's spring when it starts.
Now, that's something we can easily check just to make sure,
and we do that by comparing this to the prior year.
Now, this is really telling.
Despite the fact that the two years look relatively different,
we do see that last year there was this trend of relative stability,
while during this year,
we've had this significant drop,
which was predicated by this other drop.
We also see that last year,
it turned something around in June,
where we are just continuing the flounder during the current year.
Now, if this is my site,
I've seen enough to confirm that moving forward,
I want some notification about any other kind of drop here.
To do this, we begin by going to the customization menu and selecting "Custom Alerts".
Similarly, you can access custom alerts by going into
the "Admin" settings under the "View" because these
are configured at the view level and clicking "Custom Alerts".
You'll see that we have no alerts for this view established,
which we're going to go ahead and we're going to create a new one.
First thing that we're going to need to figure out is what to name it.
Now, we know that this is going to be based on revenue,
we know this is going to be based on a decline.
We can see the names of some other custom alerts that have been created and deprecated,
but we don't see one just like ours.
Revenue decline week over week,
for us, it's 10 percent or more.
Now, because we're working in the master view,
it's automatically going to be applied here.
If we wanted to add it to any other views,
we could also do that at the same time.
We're not going to do that in this case.
We know that this refers to a period of a week.
We want this by email.
Now, when this is "Send me an email" then 'me' is actually referring to whoever is logged
in whatever Google account is being used to access analytics at this time.
We have the opportunity to add other email addresses here and to configure
our mobile phones for text messaging alerts if we choose to do them.
All right, let's get to the conditions.
We know that this is going to apply to all traffic at the point
when revenue has a percentage decrease.
Now, we want to catch it at 10 percent,
so we're going to put nine percent here.
When the decrease is more than nine percent,
which for us we want it to start at 10 percent compared to the previous week,
we go ahead and we click "Save Alert".
It says success and now it appears here.
So, that's it.
Google Analytics will now monitor our data and when these conditions fall into place,
generate the notification to be sent to us usually the next day.
Now, editing and deleting custom alerts is done from here as well.
If you wanted to go ahead and edit this,
you would just click on it,
make your changes and click "Save".
If you decided that you didn't want the alert peer anymore,
go ahead and click "Remove",
it would ask you to confirm and you would click "Okay".
Clients sometimes ask how often to expect alerts and I tell them that ideally,
you'll expect every alert you'll get.
If that's the case,
then you have an idea of the cause of an alert once you see it in
your inbox and consent about confirming that cause and effect relationship.
It's important not to assume it's correct.
If you get an alert that you're not expecting,
it's important not to overreact,
whether it's a positive or a negative.
Often with a little bit of looking,
you'll see it that while perhaps unexpected and alert was
triggered by easily explainable factors like seasonality.
But you do need to compare to seasonal trends from
previous years if your GA data goes back 13 months or more.
Or otherwise, track down the cost till you really know what's happening in your data.
All of the products, product features, hints,
and tools that we've covered in this course are intended to help you manage
your data and get the most out of it in a streamlined and as clear away as possible.
Understanding that the problems that are most
likely to be fixed are those that are noticed,
it's always important to strive for simplicity in your implementation and clarity
in your presentation and to keep looking for ways to optimize your approach.
As you are learning and experience increase,
you'll identify more and more ways to do this.
Keeping the most important data visible and contextualized maximizes the potential impact
for Google Analytics to make a difference for
your website and the goals that you're trying to achieve with it.